# EPP622_class_project
This project is based on an existing article found at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378113516300566 and entitled "Potential bacterial core species associated with digital dermatitis in cattle herds identified by molecular profiling of interdigital skin samples" by Nielsen, MW et.al.  In summary, the article describes a study in which investigators evaluated 37 total dairy cattle that were presented for slaughter.  Ten animals had no lesions and were used as controls while the remaining 27 had significant lesions suggestive of digital dermatitis.  The investigators undertook to compare the bacterial population of the two groups.  The primary objective was to determine the various phylotypes of Treponema species (common spirochete found in digital dermatitis of cattle) and determine other bacteria that are present with lesions and which Treponema species are present at specific stages of the disease.  

Investigators performed 16s rRNA sequencing targeting the V1 and V2 regions using a general primer set for all 37 samples to evaluate the entire microbiome, then used 16s rRNA sequencing targeting the V3 and V4 regions using a primer specific for Treponema in 31 samples.  Investigators then analyzed the data using BION-meta software available at http://box.com/bion.  Paired sequences were performed and joined with no gaps and a maximum mismatch of 80% and an overlap minimum of 35 base pairs.  Both ends were cleaned removing bases of quality <98% (which is equivical to a Phred score of 17).  Concensus sequences of at least 250 nucleotides in length were mapped and classified using the Ribosomal Database Project II using a word length (k-mer) of 8 and a match minimum of 90%. Multivariate analysis of resulting profiles using ANOSIM and CAP with Bray Curtis distances were performed.

This project attempts to duplicate the results for 2 of the original studies controls (samples 6 and 9) and 2 of the original studies diseased animals (samples 19 and 26).  Original data was accessed on NCBI.  The entire projects reference number is SRP065522.  The reference numbers for the data set for each of the samples are as follows: 6) SRR2872290, 9) SRR2872294, 19) SRR2872280, and 26) SRR2872287.
